Apache.md, before:

## Apache

By Jack Szwergold

### Sundry Apache items.

Get a summary of the `VirtualHost` configurations for Apache:

	sudo apachectl -S

Getting service status with `watch` and `apache2ctl`:

	watch apache2ctl status

Getting service status with `watch` and `links`:

	watch -n 1 links -dump http://localhost/server-status

Getting service status with `elinks`:

	elinks http://localhost/server-status?refresh=1

Edit the default character set:

	sudo nano /etc/apache2/conf.d/charset

Getting `httpd` status with `fullstatus` on a CentOS/RedHat system:

	sudo httpd fullstatus

A nice one-liner to count unique IP addresses in an Apache log file:

    cat /var/log/apache2/access.log | awk '{print $1}' | sort | uniq -c | sort -n

Activate a virtual host config using `a2ensite`:

    sudo a2ensite sandbox.local.conf

Deactivate a virtual host config using `a2dissite`:

    sudo a2dissite sandbox.local.conf

Activate proxy related modules in Apache:

	sudo a2enmod proxy proxy_http

Deactivate proxy related modules in Apache:

	sudo a2dismod proxy proxy_http

### Sundry Apache items on an Ubuntu/Debian system.

Get Apache version number:

	apache2 -v

Start, stop and control Apache on an Ubuntu/Debian system:

	sudo service apache2 status
	sudo service apache2 reload
	sudo service apache2 restart
	sudo service apache2 start
	sudo service apache2 stop

Find all running Apache processes on an Ubuntu/Debian system:

    ps -ef | grep apache2

If server is unresponsive to standard commands then manually kill off processes on an Ubuntu/Debian system:

	sudo pkill -9 apache2

Display all modules compiled into Apache:

    apache2 -l

The output would be something like this:

	Compiled in modules:
	  core.c
	  mod_log_config.c
	  mod_logio.c
	  prefork.c
	  http_core.c
	  mod_so.c

### Sundry Apache items on a CentOS/RedHat system.

Get Apache version on a CentOS/RedHat system:

	httpd -v

Start, stop and control Apache on a CentOS/RedHat system:

	sudo /etc/init.d/httpd status
	sudo /etc/init.d/httpd reload
	sudo /etc/init.d/httpd restart
	sudo /etc/init.d/httpd start
	sudo /etc/init.d/httpd stop

Find all running Apache processes on a CentOS/RedHat system:

    ps -ef | grep httpd

If server is unresponsive to standard commands then manually kill off processes on a CentOS/RedHat system:

	sudo pkill -9 httpd

### Installing and using `apachetop` to monitor Apache.

Installing & using 'apachetop' on an Ubuntu/Debian system.

	sudo aptitude install apachetop

Installing & using 'apachetop' on a CentOS/RedHat system.

	sudo yum install apachetop

Then run it as like this; note that it relies on the full path to the Apache access log:

    apachetop -r 2 -f /var/log/apache2/access.log

### System configuration tweaks.

Memory Mapping (MMAP) stuff:

	#
	# EnableMMAP: Control whether memory-mapping is used to deliver
	# files (assuming that the underlying OS supports it).
	# The default is on; turn this off if you serve from NFS-mounted
	# filesystems.  On some systems, turning it off (regardless of
	# filesystem) can improve performance; for details, please see
	# http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/core.html#enablemmap
	#
	EnableMMAP Off

	#
	# EnableSendfile: Control whether the sendfile kernel support is
	# used to deliver files (assuming that the OS supports it).
	# The default is on; turn this off if you serve from NFS-mounted
	# filesystems.  Please see
	# http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/core.html#enablesendfile
	#
	EnableSendfile Off

### Some basic Apache rewrite rules.
	
	RewriteEngine On
	
	# 2017-03-29: Some basic redirects to a new server.
	Redirect 301 /index.php http://www.example.com/something
	Redirect 301 /index.html http://www.example.com/something
	
	# 2017-03-29: Some slightly more complex redirects with a wildcard.
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_1.*.html http://www.example.com/something/1
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_1.*.html http://www.example.com/something/2
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_1.*.html http://www.example.com/something/3
	
	# 2017-03-29: Some more basic redirects to a new server.
	Redirect 301 /site/something_else_1.html http://www.example.com/something_else/1
	Redirect 301 /site/something_else_2.html http://www.example.com/something_else/2
	Redirect 301 /site/something_else_3.html http://www.example.com/something_else/3
	
	# 2017-03-29: Some more slightly more complex redirects with a boolean 'or' logic.
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_fancy_(sm|md)_1.html http://www.example.com/something_fancy/1
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_fancy_(sm|md)_2.html http://www.example.com/something_fancy/2
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_fancy_(sm|md)_3.html http://www.example.com/something_fancy/3
	
	
	# 2017-03-29: A more complex rewrite rule that can pass parameters to a new destination.
	RewriteEngine on
	RewriteRule ^/site/something/?(.*)$ http://www.example.com/something_fancy/$1 [L,R=301]

### A RewriteMap example.

First create a file for the rewrite map named something like `silliness2id.txt` for this example and add a list of values like this; one per line separated by spaces:

	Something 123
	something 123
	Something%20Else 456
	Bleagh 789
	bleagh 789
	
Now add this to the Apache config or `.htaccess` file:

	# 2017-03-29: A more complex rewrite rule set that uses a rewrite map that can pass parameters to a new destination.	RewriteMap silliness   txt:/etc/apache2/silliness2id.txt
	
	RewriteEngine On
	RewriteCond %{QUERY_STRING}  (bleagh|whatever)=([^&]+)
	RewriteRule ^/site/something_more_complex/$ /site/something_more_complex/${silliness:%2}? [L,R=301]
	
### Useful Apache rewrite rules.

Rewrite rule to force lowercase:

	RewriteEngine On
	RewriteMap insensitive int:tolower
	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} [A-Z]
	RewriteRule (.*) ${insensitive:$1} [R=301,L]

Rewrite rule to redirect malware URLs with params:

	# 2012-07-28: Added to force malware URLs to finally go away.
	RedirectMatch 404 ^/new-nav/index.php
	RedirectMatch 404 ^/sites

	# 2012-09-06: Added to force more malware URLs to finally go away.
	RewriteCond %{QUERY_STRING} DrugO
	RewriteRule .* - [R=404]

Rewrite rule to block access based on referrer:

	RewriteEngine on
	# Options +FollowSymlinks
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} example\.com [NC]
	RewriteRule .* - [F]

Rewrite rule to block access based on multiple referrers:

	RewriteEngine on
	# Options +FollowSymlinks
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} example\.com [NC,OR]
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} another_example\.com
	RewriteRule .* - [F]

Rewrite rule to redirect requests based on referrer:

	RewriteEngine On
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} .*example.com.*$ [OR]
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} .*another_example.com.*$ [OR]
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} .*yet_another_example.com.*$
	RewriteRule ^(.*)$ http://www.preworn.com/

Suggested way of forcing HTTPS; not so great since it needs to pay attention to the hostname.

	# RewriteCond %{HTTPS} off [OR]
	# RewriteCond %{HTTP_HOST} ^www\.example\.com*
	# RewriteRule ^(.*)$ https://example.com/$1 [L,R=301]
	
A cleaner way of forcing HTTPS; generic and more flexible/portable.

	RewriteCond %{HTTPS} !=on
	# RewriteRule ^/?(.*) https://%{SERVER_NAME}:%{SERVER_PORT}/$1 [R,L]
	# RewriteRule ^/?(.*) https://%{SERVER_NAME}:8443/$1 [R,L]
	RewriteRule ^/?(.*) https://%{SERVER_NAME}/$1 [R,L]
	
	RewriteCond %{HTTPS} off
	RewriteRule (.*) https://%{HTTP_HOST}%{REQUEST_URI}

### Adjusting “prefork MPM” values in Apache 2.4

    sudo nano /etc/apache2/mods-available/mpm_prefork.conf

	<IfModule mpm_prefork_module>
	  StartServers            8
	  MinSpareServers        16
	  MaxSpareServers        32
	  ServerLimit            40
	  MaxRequestWorkers      40
	  MaxConnectionsPerChild 2000
	</IfModule>

***

*Apache (c) by Jack Szwergold; written on September 19, 2015. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0).*

Commit message:

Adding some more redirects based rules to the Apache cheatsheet.

Apache.md, after:

## Apache

By Jack Szwergold

### Sundry Apache items.

Get a summary of the `VirtualHost` configurations for Apache:

	sudo apachectl -S

Getting service status with `watch` and `apache2ctl`:

	watch apache2ctl status

Getting service status with `watch` and `links`:

	watch -n 1 links -dump http://localhost/server-status

Getting service status with `elinks`:

	elinks http://localhost/server-status?refresh=1

Edit the default character set:

	sudo nano /etc/apache2/conf.d/charset

Getting `httpd` status with `fullstatus` on a CentOS/RedHat system:

	sudo httpd fullstatus

A nice one-liner to count unique IP addresses in an Apache log file:

    cat /var/log/apache2/access.log | awk '{print $1}' | sort | uniq -c | sort -n

Activate a virtual host config using `a2ensite`:

    sudo a2ensite sandbox.local.conf

Deactivate a virtual host config using `a2dissite`:

    sudo a2dissite sandbox.local.conf

Activate proxy related modules in Apache:

	sudo a2enmod proxy proxy_http

Deactivate proxy related modules in Apache:

	sudo a2dismod proxy proxy_http

### Sundry Apache items on an Ubuntu/Debian system.

Get Apache version number:

	apache2 -v

Start, stop and control Apache on an Ubuntu/Debian system:

	sudo service apache2 status
	sudo service apache2 reload
	sudo service apache2 restart
	sudo service apache2 start
	sudo service apache2 stop

Find all running Apache processes on an Ubuntu/Debian system:

    ps -ef | grep apache2

If server is unresponsive to standard commands then manually kill off processes on an Ubuntu/Debian system:

	sudo pkill -9 apache2

Display all modules compiled into Apache:

    apache2 -l

The output would be something like this:

	Compiled in modules:
	  core.c
	  mod_log_config.c
	  mod_logio.c
	  prefork.c
	  http_core.c
	  mod_so.c

### Sundry Apache items on a CentOS/RedHat system.

Get Apache version on a CentOS/RedHat system:

	httpd -v

Start, stop and control Apache on a CentOS/RedHat system:

	sudo /etc/init.d/httpd status
	sudo /etc/init.d/httpd reload
	sudo /etc/init.d/httpd restart
	sudo /etc/init.d/httpd start
	sudo /etc/init.d/httpd stop

Find all running Apache processes on a CentOS/RedHat system:

    ps -ef | grep httpd

If server is unresponsive to standard commands then manually kill off processes on a CentOS/RedHat system:

	sudo pkill -9 httpd

### Installing and using `apachetop` to monitor Apache.

Installing & using 'apachetop' on an Ubuntu/Debian system.

	sudo aptitude install apachetop

Installing & using 'apachetop' on a CentOS/RedHat system.

	sudo yum install apachetop

Then run it as like this; note that it relies on the full path to the Apache access log:

    apachetop -r 2 -f /var/log/apache2/access.log

### System configuration tweaks.

Memory Mapping (MMAP) stuff:

	#
	# EnableMMAP: Control whether memory-mapping is used to deliver
	# files (assuming that the underlying OS supports it).
	# The default is on; turn this off if you serve from NFS-mounted
	# filesystems.  On some systems, turning it off (regardless of
	# filesystem) can improve performance; for details, please see
	# http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/core.html#enablemmap
	#
	EnableMMAP Off

	#
	# EnableSendfile: Control whether the sendfile kernel support is
	# used to deliver files (assuming that the OS supports it).
	# The default is on; turn this off if you serve from NFS-mounted
	# filesystems.  Please see
	# http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/core.html#enablesendfile
	#
	EnableSendfile Off

### Some basic Apache rewrite rules.
	
	RewriteEngine On
	
	# 2017-03-29: Some basic redirects to a new server.
	Redirect 301 /index.php http://www.example.com/something
	Redirect 301 /index.html http://www.example.com/something
	
	# 2017-03-29: Some slightly more complex redirects with a wildcard.
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_1.*.html http://www.example.com/something/1
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_1.*.html http://www.example.com/something/2
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_1.*.html http://www.example.com/something/3
	
	# 2017-03-29: Some more basic redirects to a new server.
	Redirect 301 /site/something_else_1.html http://www.example.com/something_else/1
	Redirect 301 /site/something_else_2.html http://www.example.com/something_else/2
	Redirect 301 /site/something_else_3.html http://www.example.com/something_else/3
	
	# 2017-03-29: Some more slightly more complex redirects with a boolean 'or' logic.
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_fancy_(sm|md)_1.html http://www.example.com/something_fancy/1
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_fancy_(sm|md)_2.html http://www.example.com/something_fancy/2
	RedirectMatch 301 /site/something_fancy_(sm|md)_3.html http://www.example.com/something_fancy/3
	
	
	# 2017-03-29: A more complex rewrite rule that can pass parameters to a new destination.
	RewriteEngine on
	RewriteRule ^/site/something/?(.*)$ http://www.example.com/something_fancy/$1 [L,R=301]

### A RewriteMap example.

First create a file for the rewrite map named something like `silliness2id.txt` for this example and add a list of values like this; one per line separated by spaces:

	Something 123
	something 123
	Something%20Else 456
	Bleagh 789
	bleagh 789
	
Now add this to the Apache config or `.htaccess` file:

	# 2017-03-29: A more complex rewrite rule set that uses a rewrite map that can pass parameters to a new destination.	RewriteMap silliness   txt:/etc/apache2/silliness2id.txt
	
	RewriteEngine On
	RewriteCond %{QUERY_STRING}  (bleagh|whatever)=([^&]+)
	RewriteRule ^/site/something_more_complex/$ /site/something_more_complex/${silliness:%2}? [L,R=301]
	
### Useful Apache rewrite rules.

Rewrite rule to force lowercase:

	RewriteEngine On
	RewriteMap insensitive int:tolower
	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} [A-Z]
	RewriteRule (.*) ${insensitive:$1} [R=301,L]

Rewrite rule to redirect malware URLs with params:

	# 2012-07-28: Added to force malware URLs to finally go away.
	RedirectMatch 404 ^/new-nav/index.php
	RedirectMatch 404 ^/sites

	# 2012-09-06: Added to force more malware URLs to finally go away.
	RewriteCond %{QUERY_STRING} DrugO
	RewriteRule .* - [R=404]

Rewrite rule to block access based on referrer:

	RewriteEngine on
	# Options +FollowSymlinks
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} example\.com [NC]
	RewriteRule .* - [F]

Rewrite rule to block access based on multiple referrers:

	RewriteEngine on
	# Options +FollowSymlinks
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} example\.com [NC,OR]
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} another_example\.com
	RewriteRule .* - [F]

Rewrite rule to redirect requests based on referrer:

	RewriteEngine On
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} .*example.com.*$ [OR]
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} .*another_example.com.*$ [OR]
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} .*yet_another_example.com.*$
	RewriteRule ^(.*)$ http://www.preworn.com/

Suggested way of forcing HTTPS; not so great since it needs to pay attention to the hostname.

	# RewriteCond %{HTTPS} off [OR]
	# RewriteCond %{HTTP_HOST} ^www\.example\.com*
	# RewriteRule ^(.*)$ https://example.com/$1 [L,R=301]
	
A cleaner way of forcing HTTPS; generic and more flexible/portable.

	RewriteCond %{HTTPS} !=on
	# RewriteRule ^/?(.*) https://%{SERVER_NAME}:%{SERVER_PORT}/$1 [R,L]
	# RewriteRule ^/?(.*) https://%{SERVER_NAME}:8443/$1 [R,L]
	RewriteRule ^/?(.*) https://%{SERVER_NAME}/$1 [R,L]
	
	RewriteCond %{HTTPS} off
	RewriteRule (.*) https://%{HTTP_HOST}%{REQUEST_URI}
	
Allow traffic through based on referrers.

	RewriteEngine On
	RewriteBase /
	
	# Allow these referrers to pass.
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_REFERER} ^https://(unblocked|blocked)\.example\.com
	RewriteRule ^ - [L]
	
	# Redirect all other traffic that doesn’t match the above referrers.
	RewriteRule ^ https://blocked.example.com/ [R,L]

### Adjusting “prefork MPM” values in Apache 2.4

    sudo nano /etc/apache2/mods-available/mpm_prefork.conf

	<IfModule mpm_prefork_module>
	  StartServers            8
	  MinSpareServers        16
	  MaxSpareServers        32
	  ServerLimit            40
	  MaxRequestWorkers      40
	  MaxConnectionsPerChild 2000
	</IfModule>

***

*Apache (c) by Jack Szwergold; written on September 19, 2015. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0).*
