Bash.md, before:

## Bash

By Jack Szwergold

### Dumping Bash history

First remove the `.bash_history` file that holds past session history:

    rm ~/.bash_history

Then clear the history connected to the current Bash session:

    history -c

### Set Bash terminal colors.

#### CLICOLOR and related values.

Setting `CLICOLOR` sets the colors used by overall Bash settings. As explained in the manpage for `ls`:

> Use ANSI color sequences to distinguish file types. See `LSCOLORS` below. In addition to the file types mentioned in the `-F` option some extra attributes (setuid bit set, etc.) are also displayed. The colorization is dependent on a terminal type with the proper termcap(5) capabilities. The default `cons25` console has the proper capabilities, but to display the colors in an xterm(1), for example, the TERM variable must be set to `xterm-color`. Other terminal types may require similar adjustments. Colorization is silently disabled if the output isn't directed to a terminal unless the `CLICOLOR_FORCE` variable is defined.

To set `LSCOLORS` open up `.bash_profile`:

    nano ~/.bash_profile

And just set `CLICOLOR` settings like this:

    export CLICOLOR=1

#### LSCOLORS and related values.

Setting `LSCOLORS` sets the colors used by `ls` for directory listings. As explained in the manpage for `ls`:

> The value of this variable describes what color to use for which attribute when colors are enabled with `CLICOLOR`. This string is a concatenation of pairs of the format `fb`, where `f` is the foreground color and `b` is the background color. The color designators are as follows:
	
	a     black
	b     red
	c     green
	d     brown
	e     blue
	f     magenta
	g     cyan
	h     light grey
	A     bold black, usually shows up as dark grey
	B     bold red
	C     bold green
	D     bold brown, usually shows up as yellow
	E     bold blue
	F     bold magenta
	G     bold cyan
	H     bold light grey; looks like bright white
    x     default foreground or background

To set `LSCOLORS` open up `.bash_profile`:

    nano ~/.bash_profile

And here are some example `LSCOLORS` settings:

    export LSCOLORS=GxFxCxDxBxegedabagaced
    export LSCOLORS=ExGxBxDxCxEgEdxbxgxcxd

### An example of a basic Bash shell `.bash_profile`.

	# Setting CLI colors.
	export CLICOLOR=1;

	# MAMP stuff.
	export MAMP_BIN="/Applications/MAMP/Library/bin";
	export MAMP_PHP="/Applications/MAMP/bin/php/php5.6.27/bin";

	# Git stuff.
	# export GIT_BIN="/usr/local/git/bin";

	# ImageMagick stuff.
	# export MAGICK_HOME="/opt/ImageMagick";
	# export DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH="$MAGICK_HOME/lib/";

	# Final $PATH setting.
	# export PATH="$MAGICK_HOME/bin:$MAMP_BIN:$MAMP_PHP:/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:$GIT_BIN:$PATH";
	# export PATH="$MAGICK_HOME/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:$GIT_BIN:$PATH";
	export PATH="/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:$MAMP_BIN:$MAMP_PHP:$PATH";

	# Set the VAGRANT_HOME path.
	export VAGRANT_HOME="/Volumes/Moon/vagrant.d";

	# 2016-12-08: Load the SSH key into the keychain.
	ssh-add -K 2>/dev/null;

***

*Bash (c) by Jack Szwergold; written on September 27, 2015. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-4.0).*

Commit message:

Adding a note on Bash sessions disabling to the mix.

Bash.md, after:

## Bash

By Jack Szwergold

### Dumping Bash history

First remove the `.bash_history` file that holds past session history:

    rm ~/.bash_history

Then clear the history connected to the current Bash session:

    history -c

### Set Bash terminal colors.

#### CLICOLOR and related values.

Setting `CLICOLOR` sets the colors used by overall Bash settings. As explained in the manpage for `ls`:

> Use ANSI color sequences to distinguish file types. See `LSCOLORS` below. In addition to the file types mentioned in the `-F` option some extra attributes (setuid bit set, etc.) are also displayed. The colorization is dependent on a terminal type with the proper termcap(5) capabilities. The default `cons25` console has the proper capabilities, but to display the colors in an xterm(1), for example, the TERM variable must be set to `xterm-color`. Other terminal types may require similar adjustments. Colorization is silently disabled if the output isn't directed to a terminal unless the `CLICOLOR_FORCE` variable is defined.

To set `LSCOLORS` open up `.bash_profile`:

    nano ~/.bash_profile

And just set `CLICOLOR` settings like this:

    export CLICOLOR=1

#### LSCOLORS and related values.

Setting `LSCOLORS` sets the colors used by `ls` for directory listings. As explained in the manpage for `ls`:

> The value of this variable describes what color to use for which attribute when colors are enabled with `CLICOLOR`. This string is a concatenation of pairs of the format `fb`, where `f` is the foreground color and `b` is the background color. The color designators are as follows:
	
	a     black
	b     red
	c     green
	d     brown
	e     blue
	f     magenta
	g     cyan
	h     light grey
	A     bold black, usually shows up as dark grey
	B     bold red
	C     bold green
	D     bold brown, usually shows up as yellow
	E     bold blue
	F     bold magenta
	G     bold cyan
	H     bold light grey; looks like bright white
    x     default foreground or background

To set `LSCOLORS` open up `.bash_profile`:

    nano ~/.bash_profile

And here are some example `LSCOLORS` settings:

    export LSCOLORS=GxFxCxDxBxegedabagaced
    export LSCOLORS=ExGxBxDxCxEgEdxbxgxcxd

### An example of a basic Bash shell `.bash_profile`.

	# Disable shell sessions to get a real history back.
	# You can also just create a '.bash_sessions_disable' file in your home directory.
	# SHELL_SESSION_HISTORY=0

	# Setting CLI colors.
	export CLICOLOR=1;

	# MAMP stuff.
	export MAMP_BIN="/Applications/MAMP/Library/bin";
	export MAMP_PHP="/Applications/MAMP/bin/php/php5.6.27/bin";

	# Git stuff.
	# export GIT_BIN="/usr/local/git/bin";

	# ImageMagick stuff.
	# export MAGICK_HOME="/opt/ImageMagick";
	# export DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH="$MAGICK_HOME/lib/";

	# Final $PATH setting.
	# export PATH="$MAGICK_HOME/bin:$MAMP_BIN:$MAMP_PHP:/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:$GIT_BIN:$PATH";
	# export PATH="$MAGICK_HOME/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:$GIT_BIN:$PATH";
	export PATH="/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:$MAMP_BIN:$MAMP_PHP:$PATH";

	# Set the VAGRANT_HOME path.
	export VAGRANT_HOME="/Volumes/Moon/vagrant.d";

	# 2016-12-08: Load the SSH key into the keychain.
	ssh-add -K 2>/dev/null;

***

*Bash (c) by Jack Szwergold; written on September 27, 2015. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-4.0).*
