Cheat Sheet - Ubuntu - Updates and Repository Items.md, before:

# Cheat Sheet - Ubuntu - Updates and Repository Items

By Jack Szwergold, September 11, 2015

### Clean out old Linux Kernels.

#### Get the currently active Linux kernel version.

First, be sure to reboot to get the new kernel loaded. Once rebooted, check which kernel is your currently active kernel:

    uname -r

Note that kernel version and **do not attempt to delete that kernel**; that is your currently active Linux kernel.

#### List all Linux kernel versions installed on the system.

Next, type the command below to view/list all installed Linux kernels on your system:

    dpkg --list | grep linux-image

Look at that list and note all of the Linux kernels whose verison number is *lower* than your currently active Linux kernel version. Those are the Linux kernels you are going to remove.

#### Purge the old/unwanted Linux kernel versions.

Finally, run the commands below to remove the kernel you selected:

    sudo aptitude purge linux-image-x.x.x.x-generic

As a part of the process, `grub2` should be automatically run to update the GRUB bootloader avaiable systems list. But if it somehow doesn’t run automatically, you and run it manually like this:

	sudo update-grub2

With that done, just reboot your system and you should be all done.

### Clear up `aptitude` repository list problems.

Sometimes `aptitude` repository lists—and some related files—get mucked up for no clear reason and need to be redownloaded and rebuilt. Here is some advice on what you can do to clear up some `aptitude` repository list related issues.

Before anything, *do not ever* run an `aptitude` command with `--full-resolver` unless there is no other choice since it can muck up the system in some cases. Instead, just toss the stored repository files like this:

    sudo rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*

Then just run `aptitude update` to get new/clean copies of the repository lists:

    sudo aptitude update

And all should be good again.

### If you have to use `--full-resolver` use it as a part of `safe-upgrade`.

If for some reason there are still issues with your `aptitude` repository lists and you need to run `--full-resolver`, do it with the `safe-upgrade` option:

    sudo aptitude safe-upgrade --full-resolver

And then just wait for it to do it’s thing and run the standard `sudo aptitude update`/`sudo aptitude upgrade` combo and all should be fine again.


### Dealing with installation package issues.

#### Clearing up a screwed up package install/upgrade.

If a standard `sudo aptitude install` or `sudo aptitude upgrade` screws up, you might have to run this command to clear things up:

    sudo dpkg --configure -a

#### Upgrading only a specific package.

If you need to upgrade a specific package—and not any other package—run this command:

    sudo apt-get install --only-upgrade [package name]

#### Clean out unused packages.

Sometimes stray/unused packages get left behind on a system. To clean them out just run this command:

    sudo apt-get autoremove

See if anything needs to be removed and if all looks okay, just go ahead and respond yes (`Y`) and all should be good.

***

*Cheat Sheet - Ubuntu - Updates and Repository Items (c) by Jack Szwergold*

*This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0).*

Commit message:

Adding some PPA related info to the Ubuntu repository items cheat sheet.

Cheat Sheet - Ubuntu - Updates and Repository Items.md, after:

# Cheat Sheet - Ubuntu - Updates and Repository Items

By Jack Szwergold, September 11, 2015

### Clean out old Linux Kernels.

#### Get the currently active Linux kernel version.

First, be sure to reboot to get the new kernel loaded. Once rebooted, check which kernel is your currently active kernel:

    uname -r

Note that kernel version and **do not attempt to delete that kernel**; that is your currently active Linux kernel.

#### List all Linux kernel versions installed on the system.

Next, type the command below to view/list all installed Linux kernels on your system:

    dpkg --list | grep linux-image

Look at that list and note all of the Linux kernels whose verison number is *lower* than your currently active Linux kernel version. Those are the Linux kernels you are going to remove.

#### Purge the old/unwanted Linux kernel versions.

Finally, run the commands below to remove the kernel you selected:

    sudo aptitude purge linux-image-x.x.x.x-generic

As a part of the process, `grub2` should be automatically run to update the GRUB bootloader avaiable systems list. But if it somehow doesn’t run automatically, you and run it manually like this:

	sudo update-grub2

With that done, just reboot your system and you should be all done.

### Clear up `aptitude` repository list problems.

Sometimes `aptitude` repository lists—and some related files—get mucked up for no clear reason and need to be redownloaded and rebuilt. Here is some advice on what you can do to clear up some `aptitude` repository list related issues.

Before anything, *do not ever* run an `aptitude` command with `--full-resolver` unless there is no other choice since it can muck up the system in some cases. Instead, just toss the stored repository files like this:

    sudo rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*

Then just run `aptitude update` to get new/clean copies of the repository lists:

    sudo aptitude update

And all should be good again.

### If you have to use `--full-resolver` use it as a part of `safe-upgrade`.

If for some reason there are still issues with your `aptitude` repository lists and you need to run `--full-resolver`, do it with the `safe-upgrade` option:

    sudo aptitude safe-upgrade --full-resolver

And then just wait for it to do it’s thing and run the standard `sudo aptitude update`/`sudo aptitude upgrade` combo and all should be fine again.

### Dealing with installation package issues.

#### Clearing up a screwed up package install/upgrade.

If a standard `sudo aptitude install` or `sudo aptitude upgrade` screws up, you might have to run this command to clear things up:

    sudo dpkg --configure -a

#### Upgrading only a specific package.

If you need to upgrade a specific package—and not any other package—run this command:

    sudo apt-get install --only-upgrade [package name]

#### Clean out unused packages.

Sometimes stray/unused packages get left behind on a system. To clean them out just run this command:

    sudo apt-get autoremove

See if anything needs to be removed and if all looks okay, just go ahead and respond yes (`Y`) and all should be good.

### Dealing with PPAs (Personal Package Archives).

Check what PPAs (Personal Package Archives) are set on the system:

    ls -la /etc/apt/sources.list.d/

Check what repositories—including PPAs—the system checks:

    apt-cache policy

#### Installing and removing a PPA.

First install `python-software-properties` like this:

    sudo aptitude install python-software-properties

Next add the PPA repository to the system like this:

    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:whatever/ppa

Remove a specific repository using `add-apt-repository` with the `--remove` flag:

    sudo add-apt-repository --remove ppa:whatever/ppa

***

*Cheat Sheet - Ubuntu - Updates and Repository Items (c) by Jack Szwergold*

*This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0).*
