# Cheat Sheet - IPables

By Jack Szwergold, September 11, 2015

#### Start, stop and control `iptables`

On Ubuntu/Debian systems you can start, stop, restart and flush `iptables` this way:

	sudo service iptables-persistent start
	sudo service iptables-persistent stop
	sudo service iptables-persistent restart
	sudo service iptables-persistent flush

On CentOS/RedHat systems you can start, stop, restart and flush `iptables` this way:

    sudo /etc/rc.d/init.d/iptables start
    sudo /etc/rc.d/init.d/iptables stop
    sudo /etc/rc.d/init.d/iptables restart
    sudo /etc/rc.d/init.d/iptables flush

#### Different ways to showing `iptables` rules.

List all rules (`-L`) in the selected table—default is `-t filter`—with hostname lookups.

	sudo iptables -L

List all rules (`-L`) in the selected table—default is `-t filter`—in numeric format (`-n`) without hostname lookups.

	sudo iptables -L -n

List all rules (`-L`) in the selected table—default is `-t filter`—in numeric format (`-n`) without hostname lookups and add line numbers (`--line-numbers`) to each line.

	sudo iptables --line-numbers -n -L

List all rules (`-L`) in the NAT table (`-t nat`) in numeric format (`-n`) without hostname lookups.

    sudo iptables -t nat -L -n

#### Install and setup `iptables-persistent`.

By default, an Ubuntu/Debian systems lose `iptables` rules on reboot. Installing `iptables-persistent` assures that rules are saved and reloaded on reboot:

    sudo aptitude install iptables-persistent

If `iptables` rules have already been set on the system, export the rules into a text file like this:

    sudo iptables-save > ~/iptables.conf

Now create an `iptables-persistent` specific storage directory if it doesn’t exist already:

    sudo mkdir /etc/iptables

On Ubuntu/Debian you can copy the rules saved in the text file `~/iptables.conf` into the `/etc/iptables/rules.v4` location so `iptables-persistent` can load them:

    sudo cp ~/iptables.conf /etc/iptables/rules.v4

On RedHat/CentOS you can copy the rules saved in the text file `~/iptables.conf` into the `/etc/iptables/rules.v4` location so `iptables-persistent` can load them:

    sudo cp ~/iptables.conf /etc/sysconfig/iptables

And with that done, `iptables-persistent` should be all set.

#### Manually importing `iptables` rules.

To manually import `iptables` rules, just use `iptables-restore` like this:

    sudo iptables-restore < ~/iptables.conf

#### Flushing `iptables` rules.

To dump all `iptables` rules, use the `-F` flag to flush all of the `iptables` rules in all chains:

    sudo iptables -F

#### Delete an `iptables` chain.

To delete all non-core `iptables` chains, just use the `-X` flag like so:

    sudo iptables -X

To delete a specific `iptables` chain, just use the `-X` flag like so and be sure to indicate the name of the chain to be deleted:

    sudo iptables -X [chain name]

### A simple `PREROUTING` example.

To set port rerouting directly in the command line, run a command like this; this command assumes the source IP of `11.22.33.44` will connect on port `8000` and get traffic from port `80`:

    sudo iptables -A PREROUTING -t nat -s 11.22.33.44 --p tcp --dport 8000 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 80

Or you can add this rule to the `*nat` table into the `iptables.conf` text file; this command assumes the source IP of `11.22.33.44` will connect on port `8000` and get traffic from port `80`:

    -A PREROUTING -s 11.22.33.44 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 8000 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 80

### A basic and solid `iptables` config.

This is a basic, solid and relatively simple set config (`iptables.conf`) I like to use with IPTables. The only adjustments to note are that one should adjust the `123.456.789.0` port `22` line to match any IP address you want to be allowed past standard SSH rules. Ports `80` and `443` are open in this config as well as they are standard web ports; add or remove them based on server needs.

	# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Sun Apr  6 11:50:24 2014
	*nat
	:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
	:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
	:OUTPUT ACCEPT [3:198]
	:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [3:198]
	COMMIT
	# Completed on Sun Apr  6 11:50:24 2014
	# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Sun Apr  6 11:50:24 2014
	*mangle
	:PREROUTING ACCEPT [22:1475]
	:INPUT ACCEPT [22:1475]
	:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
	:OUTPUT ACCEPT [21:3342]
	:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [21:3342]
	COMMIT
	# Completed on Sun Apr  6 11:50:24 2014
	# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Sun Apr  6 11:50:24 2014
	*filter
	:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
	:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
	:OUTPUT ACCEPT [21:3342]
	:SSH_CHECK - [0:0]
	:TOR - [0:0]
	
	# Accept specific IP addresses.
	-A INPUT -s 123.456.789.0/32 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
	-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -m state --state NEW -j SSH_CHECK
	-A INPUT -j TOR
	-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
	
	# Drop invalid SYN packets.
	-A INPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags ALL ACK,RST,SYN,FIN -j REJECT
	-A INPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags SYN,FIN SYN,FIN -j REJECT
	-A INPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags SYN,RST SYN,RST -j REJECT
	
	# The combination of these TCP flags is not defined. Accepting packets so marked may cause unexpected results.
	-A INPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags FIN,SYN,RST,PSH,ACK,URG NONE -j REJECT
	-A INPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags FIN,SYN,RST,PSH,ACK,URG FIN,SYN,RST,PSH,ACK,URG -j REJECT
	-A INPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags FIN,SYN,RST,PSH,ACK,URG FIN,PSH,URG -j REJECT
	-A INPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags FIN,RST FIN,RST -j REJECT
	-A INPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags FIN,ACK FIN -j REJECT
	-A INPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags PSH,ACK PSH -j REJECT
	-A INPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags ACK,URG URG -j REJECT
	
	# Make sure new incoming tcp connections are SYN packets; otherwise we need to drop them. 
	-A INPUT -p tcp ! --syn -m state --state NEW -j REJECT
	
	# Drop packets with incoming fragments. This attack result into Linux server panic such data loss.
	-A INPUT -p tcp --tcp-flags ALL ALL -j REJECT
	
	# Accept ports.
	-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
	-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 443 -j ACCEPT
	-A INPUT -p icmp -m icmp --icmp-type any -j ACCEPT
	-A INPUT -p esp -j ACCEPT
	-A INPUT -p ah -j ACCEPT
	-A INPUT -d 224.0.0.251/32 -p udp -m udp --dport 5353 -j ACCEPT
	-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
	-A INPUT -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
	-A INPUT -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-host-prohibited
	-A FORWARD -j TOR
	-A SSH_CHECK -m recent --set --name SSH --rsource
	-A SSH_CHECK -m recent --update --seconds 60 --hitcount 20 --name SSH --rsource -j DROP
	COMMIT
	# Completed on Sun Apr  6 11:50:24 2014

***

*Cheat Sheet - IPables (c) by Jack Szwergold*

*This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0).*