Elasticsearch.md, before:

## Elasticsearch

By Jack Szwergold

### Elasticsearch prerequisites.

Elasticsearch requires Java 7—or better—to be installed for it to work. So make sure the system you plan on running Elasticsearch on has Java 7 installed and `JAVA_HOME` is properly set on the system.

### Install Elasticsearch.

First, import the public key used by the package management system:

    wget -qO - http://packages.elasticsearch.org/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | sudo apt-key add -

Next, create a sources list file for Elasticsearch:

    echo 'deb http://packages.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/1.4/debian stable main' | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/elasticsearch.list

Now, run `aptitude update` like this:

    sudo aptitude update

Then install Elasticsearch via `aptitude` like this:

    sudo aptitude install elasticsearch

Finally Elasticsearch will be installed, but it won’t be set to startup on boot. So run this `update-rc.d` command to get that set:

    sudo update-rc.d elasticsearch defaults 95 10

If somehow you need to remove the `update-rc.d` stuff, remove these items:

    sudo rm /etc/rc0.d/K10elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc1.d/K10elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc6.d/K10elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc2.d/S95elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc3.d/S95elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc4.d/S95elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc5.d/S95elasticsearch

#### Sundry Elasticsearch items on an Ubuntu/Debian system.

Start, stop and control Elasticsearch on an Ubuntu/Debian system:

	sudo service elasticsearch start
	sudo service elasticsearch stop
	sudo service elasticsearch restart
	sudo service elasticsearch force-reload
	sudo service elasticsearch status

Edit the Elasticsearch configuration file:

    sudo nano /etc/default/elasticsearch

Elasticsearch configuration storage location:

    ls -la /etc/elasticsearch

Elasticsearch log storage location:

    ls -la /var/log/elasticsearch

Another Elasticsearch configuration file:

    sudo nano /etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml

Follow the main Elasticsearch log:

    tail -f -n 200 /var/log/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.log

Follow the main Elasticsearch “slow” log:

    tail -f -n 200 /var/log/elasticsearch/elasticsearch_index_indexing_slowlog.log
    tail -f -n 200 /var/log/elasticsearch/elasticsearch_index_search_slowlog.log

Elasticsearch data storage location:

    ls -la /var/lib/elasticsearch

Elasticsearch work file storage location:

    ls -la /tmp/elasticsearch

#### Testing Elasticsearch.

With Elasticsearch installed—and with the service script installed—we can start it by running this command:

    sudo service elasticsearch start

It should start up immediately and return the following:

    * Starting Elasticsearch Server

And can then be accessed via port `9200` like this:

    http://sandbox.local:9200

You can check returned headers like this:

    curl -I http://sandbox.local:9200

If running, it will cleanly return a `200` status like this:

	HTTP/1.1 200 OK
	Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8
	Content-Length: 0

And will send back data via the command line using `curl` as well:

    curl http://sandbox.local:9200

The response should be something like:

	{
	  "status" : 200,
	  "name" : "Watcher",
	  "cluster_name" : "elasticsearch",
	  "version" : {
	    "number" : "1.4.5",
	    "build_hash" : "2aaf797f2a571dcb779a3b61180afe8390ab61f9",
	    "build_timestamp" : "2015-04-27T08:06:06Z",
	    "build_snapshot" : false,
	    "lucene_version" : "4.10.4"
	  },
	  "tagline" : "You Know, for Search"
	}

#### Bind to `localhost` to disable networking.

By default, Elasticsearch will be networked to allow connections from anywhere, everywhere. If that’s not really desired you can disable networking like this.

First, open up the main config file here:

    sudo nano /etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml

Find the `network.host` config area:

	# Set both 'bind_host' and 'publish_host':
	#
	#network.host: 192.168.0.1

And adjust it like so:

	# Set both 'bind_host' and 'publish_host':
	#
	#network.host: 192.168.0.1
	network.host: localhost

Then restart Elasticsearch:

    sudo service elasticsearch restart

And it will now only be available to `localhost` connections on port `9200` moving forward so it would have to be accessed on the server directly like this:

    curl http://localhost:9200

### Practical Elasticsearch data usage examples.

#### Create an index.

This creates the “pranks” index:

    curl -XPUT 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks?pretty=true'

This creates the “jokes” index:

    curl -XPUT 'http://sandbox.local:9200/jokes?pretty=true'

#### Enter test data.

With the index created, let’s add some test data to the “pranks” index:

    curl -XPUT 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks/tubebar/1?pretty=true' -d '{ "name" : "Al Coholic" }'

And now add some test data to the “jokes” index:

    curl -XPUT 'http://sandbox.local:9200/jokes/bagels/1?pretty=true' -d '{ "question" : "How do you keep a bagel safe?", "answer" : "Put lox on it!" }'

#### Verify the test data.

Now, let’s verify the data entered in the “pranks” index:

    curl -XGET 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks/tubebar/1?pretty=true'

And now verify the data entered in the “jokes” index:

    curl -XGET 'http://sandbox.local:9200/jokes/bagels/1?pretty=true'

#### Do some test searches of the data.

Let’s do a test search for the name “al” in the “tubebar” index like this:

    curl 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks/tubebar/_search?q=name:al&pretty=true'

And the returned results should be something like this:

	{
	  "took" : 3,
	  "timed_out" : false,
	  "_shards" : {
	    "total" : 5,
	    "successful" : 5,
	    "failed" : 0
	  },
	  "hits" : {
	    "total" : 1,
	    "max_score" : 0.19178301,
	    "hits" : [ {
	      "_index" : "pranks",
	      "_type" : "tubebar",
	      "_id" : "1",
	      "_score" : 0.19178301,
	      "_source":{ "name" : "Al Coholic" }
	    } ]
	  }
	}

And now let’s do a test search for the word “lox” in the “jokes” index like this:

    curl 'http://sandbox.local:9200/jokes/bagels/_search?q=answer:lox&pretty=true'

And the returned data should be:

	{
	  "took" : 3,
	  "timed_out" : false,
	  "_shards" : {
	    "total" : 5,
	    "successful" : 5,
	    "failed" : 0
	  },
	  "hits" : {
	    "total" : 1,
	    "max_score" : 0.15342641,
	    "hits" : [ {
	      "_index" : "jokes",
	      "_type" : "bagels",
	      "_id" : "1",
	      "_score" : 0.15342641,
	      "_source":{ "question" : "How do you keep a bagel safe?", "answer" : "Put lox on it!" }
	    } ]
	  }
	}

#### List all indexes in the Elasticsearch server.

This lists all indexes:

    curl 'http://sandbox.local:9200/_cat/indices?v'

Results should be something like this:

	health status index  pri rep docs.count docs.deleted store.size pri.store.size
	yellow open   pranks   5   1          1            0      2.9kb          2.9kb
	yellow open   jokes    5   1          1            0      3.3kb          3.3kb

#### Flush an Elasticsearch index to rebuild it.

Flush the “pranks” index to rebuild it like this:

    curl -XPOST 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks/_flush?pretty=true'

Flush the “jokes” index to rebuild it like this:

    curl -XPOST 'http://sandbox.local:9200/_flush?pretty=true'

Or you can flush multiple indexes—like “pranks” and “pranks”—to rebuild them like this:

    curl -XPOST 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks,jokes/_flush?pretty=true'

#### Delete Elasticsearch indexes.

This will delete the “pranks” index:

    curl -XDELETE 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks/?pretty=true'

This will delete all indexes:

    curl -XDELETE 'http://sandbox.local:9200/_all?pretty=true'

And this will also delete all indexes:

    curl -XDELETE 'http://sandbox.local:9200/*?pretty=true'

***

*Elasticsearch (c) by Jack Szwergold; written on September 21, 2015. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0).*

Commit message:

Begrudingly adding a Homebrew option for Elasticsearch.

Elasticsearch.md, after:

## Elasticsearch

By Jack Szwergold

### Elasticsearch prerequisites.

Elasticsearch requires Java 7—or better—to be installed for it to work. So make sure the system you plan on running Elasticsearch on has Java 7 installed and `JAVA_HOME` is properly set on the system.

### Install Elasticsearch.

First, import the public key used by the package management system:

    wget -qO - http://packages.elasticsearch.org/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | sudo apt-key add -

Next, create a sources list file for Elasticsearch:

    echo 'deb http://packages.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/1.4/debian stable main' | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/elasticsearch.list

Now, run `aptitude update` like this:

    sudo aptitude update

Then install Elasticsearch via `aptitude` like this:

    sudo aptitude install elasticsearch

Finally Elasticsearch will be installed, but it won’t be set to startup on boot. So run this `update-rc.d` command to get that set:

    sudo update-rc.d elasticsearch defaults 95 10

If somehow you need to remove the `update-rc.d` stuff, remove these items:

    sudo rm /etc/rc0.d/K10elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc1.d/K10elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc6.d/K10elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc2.d/S95elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc3.d/S95elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc4.d/S95elasticsearch
    sudo rm /etc/rc5.d/S95elasticsearch

#### Sundry Elasticsearch items on an Ubuntu/Debian system.

Start, stop and control Elasticsearch on an Ubuntu/Debian system:

	sudo service elasticsearch start
	sudo service elasticsearch stop
	sudo service elasticsearch restart
	sudo service elasticsearch force-reload
	sudo service elasticsearch status

Edit the Elasticsearch configuration file:

    sudo nano /etc/default/elasticsearch

Elasticsearch configuration storage location:

    ls -la /etc/elasticsearch

Elasticsearch log storage location:

    ls -la /var/log/elasticsearch

Another Elasticsearch configuration file:

    sudo nano /etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml

Follow the main Elasticsearch log:

    tail -f -n 200 /var/log/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.log

Follow the main Elasticsearch “slow” log:

    tail -f -n 200 /var/log/elasticsearch/elasticsearch_index_indexing_slowlog.log
    tail -f -n 200 /var/log/elasticsearch/elasticsearch_index_search_slowlog.log

Elasticsearch data storage location:

    ls -la /var/lib/elasticsearch

Elasticsearch work file storage location:

    ls -la /tmp/elasticsearch

### Install Elasticsearch on Mac OS X.

Some applications insist on using `localhost` or are a pain in the ass to set an alternative URL for. So in cases like that, installing Elasticsearch locally via Homebrew. And here is how to do that.

First, get Homebrew installed on your machine if you don’t have it installed alread:

    /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"

Now, setup Java like this:

    brew cask install java

Install the latest version of Elasticsearch like this:

    brew install elasticsearch

And if you want to install an older, supported version of Elasticsearch—like versions 1.7 and 2.3—just run this command:

	brew install homebrew/versions/elasticsearch17 
	brew install homebrew/versions/elasticsearch23 

#### Testing Elasticsearch.

With Elasticsearch installed—and with the service script installed—we can start it by running this command:

    sudo service elasticsearch start

It should start up immediately and return the following:

    * Starting Elasticsearch Server

And can then be accessed via port `9200` like this:

    http://sandbox.local:9200

You can check returned headers like this:

    curl -I http://sandbox.local:9200

If running, it will cleanly return a `200` status like this:

	HTTP/1.1 200 OK
	Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8
	Content-Length: 0

And will send back data via the command line using `curl` as well:

    curl http://sandbox.local:9200

The response should be something like:

	{
	  "status" : 200,
	  "name" : "Watcher",
	  "cluster_name" : "elasticsearch",
	  "version" : {
	    "number" : "1.4.5",
	    "build_hash" : "2aaf797f2a571dcb779a3b61180afe8390ab61f9",
	    "build_timestamp" : "2015-04-27T08:06:06Z",
	    "build_snapshot" : false,
	    "lucene_version" : "4.10.4"
	  },
	  "tagline" : "You Know, for Search"
	}

#### Bind to `localhost` to disable networking.

By default, Elasticsearch will be networked to allow connections from anywhere, everywhere. If that’s not really desired you can disable networking like this.

First, open up the main config file here:

    sudo nano /etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml

Find the `network.host` config area:

	# Set both 'bind_host' and 'publish_host':
	#
	#network.host: 192.168.0.1

And adjust it like so:

	# Set both 'bind_host' and 'publish_host':
	#
	#network.host: 192.168.0.1
	network.host: localhost

Then restart Elasticsearch:

    sudo service elasticsearch restart

And it will now only be available to `localhost` connections on port `9200` moving forward so it would have to be accessed on the server directly like this:

    curl http://localhost:9200

### Practical Elasticsearch data usage examples.

#### Create an index.

This creates the “pranks” index:

    curl -XPUT 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks?pretty=true'

This creates the “jokes” index:

    curl -XPUT 'http://sandbox.local:9200/jokes?pretty=true'

#### Enter test data.

With the index created, let’s add some test data to the “pranks” index:

    curl -XPUT 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks/tubebar/1?pretty=true' -d '{ "name" : "Al Coholic" }'

And now add some test data to the “jokes” index:

    curl -XPUT 'http://sandbox.local:9200/jokes/bagels/1?pretty=true' -d '{ "question" : "How do you keep a bagel safe?", "answer" : "Put lox on it!" }'

#### Verify the test data.

Now, let’s verify the data entered in the “pranks” index:

    curl -XGET 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks/tubebar/1?pretty=true'

And now verify the data entered in the “jokes” index:

    curl -XGET 'http://sandbox.local:9200/jokes/bagels/1?pretty=true'

#### Do some test searches of the data.

Let’s do a test search for the name “al” in the “tubebar” index like this:

    curl 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks/tubebar/_search?q=name:al&pretty=true'

And the returned results should be something like this:

	{
	  "took" : 3,
	  "timed_out" : false,
	  "_shards" : {
	    "total" : 5,
	    "successful" : 5,
	    "failed" : 0
	  },
	  "hits" : {
	    "total" : 1,
	    "max_score" : 0.19178301,
	    "hits" : [ {
	      "_index" : "pranks",
	      "_type" : "tubebar",
	      "_id" : "1",
	      "_score" : 0.19178301,
	      "_source":{ "name" : "Al Coholic" }
	    } ]
	  }
	}

And now let’s do a test search for the word “lox” in the “jokes” index like this:

    curl 'http://sandbox.local:9200/jokes/bagels/_search?q=answer:lox&pretty=true'

And the returned data should be:

	{
	  "took" : 3,
	  "timed_out" : false,
	  "_shards" : {
	    "total" : 5,
	    "successful" : 5,
	    "failed" : 0
	  },
	  "hits" : {
	    "total" : 1,
	    "max_score" : 0.15342641,
	    "hits" : [ {
	      "_index" : "jokes",
	      "_type" : "bagels",
	      "_id" : "1",
	      "_score" : 0.15342641,
	      "_source":{ "question" : "How do you keep a bagel safe?", "answer" : "Put lox on it!" }
	    } ]
	  }
	}

#### List all indexes in the Elasticsearch server.

This lists all indexes:

    curl 'http://sandbox.local:9200/_cat/indices?v'

Results should be something like this:

	health status index  pri rep docs.count docs.deleted store.size pri.store.size
	yellow open   pranks   5   1          1            0      2.9kb          2.9kb
	yellow open   jokes    5   1          1            0      3.3kb          3.3kb

#### Flush an Elasticsearch index to rebuild it.

Flush the “pranks” index to rebuild it like this:

    curl -XPOST 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks/_flush?pretty=true'

Flush the “jokes” index to rebuild it like this:

    curl -XPOST 'http://sandbox.local:9200/_flush?pretty=true'

Or you can flush multiple indexes—like “pranks” and “pranks”—to rebuild them like this:

    curl -XPOST 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks,jokes/_flush?pretty=true'

#### Delete Elasticsearch indexes.

This will delete the “pranks” index:

    curl -XDELETE 'http://sandbox.local:9200/pranks/?pretty=true'

This will delete all indexes:

    curl -XDELETE 'http://sandbox.local:9200/_all?pretty=true'

And this will also delete all indexes:

    curl -XDELETE 'http://sandbox.local:9200/*?pretty=true'

***

*Elasticsearch (c) by Jack Szwergold; written on September 21, 2015. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0).*
