Find - Video Processing Items.md, before:

## Find - Video Processing Items

By Jack Szwergold

### Video Metadata Parser

This script (`video_metadata_parser.sh`) uses ExifTool to parse dates, times and titles from a directory of video files on the desktop. Info is saved on the desktop into a dated text file named something like `VideoInfo-2017-07-25.txt`:

	find -E "Desktop/Videos" -type f -iregex ".*\.(M4V|MOV)$" |\
	  while read full_video_filepath
	  do
	
	    # Break up the full audio filepath stuff into different directory and filename components.
	    video_dirname=$(dirname "${full_video_filepath}");
	    video_basename=$(basename "${full_video_filepath}");
	    video_filename="${video_basename%.*}";
	    video_extension="${video_basename##*.}";
	
	    # Get the video metadata.
	    video_date=$(exiftool -s -s -s -CreationDate "${full_video_filepath}");
	    video_title=$(exiftool -s -s -s -Title "${full_video_filepath}");
	
	    # Reformat the file creation date to be Flickr friendly.
	    if [ ! -z "${video_date}" ]; then
	      video_date_formatted=$(date -jf"%Y:%m:%d %k:%M:%S" "${video_date%-*}" +"%m/%d/%Y %k:%M:%S");
	    else
	      video_date_formatted="";
	    fi
	
	    # Reformat the file creation date to be Flickr friendly.
	    echo "${video_filename} | ${video_date_formatted} | ${video_title}" >> "Desktop/VideoInfo-$(date +%Y-%m-%d).txt";
	
	  done

### Extract MP4 Videos Out of an MKV File

Simple script traverse a directory filled with MKV files and extract the MP4 inside without transcoding:

	find -E 'Desktop/Movies' -type f -iregex '.*\.(MKV)$' |\
	  while read FULL_PATH
	  do
	    PATH_SANS_EXTENSION="${FULL_PATH%.*}"
	    ffmpeg -i "${FULL_PATH}" -codec copy "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}".mp4
	  done

### Extract ASS Subtitles Out of an MKV File

Simple script traverse a directory filled with MKV files and extract the ASS formatted subitles out of them:

	find -E 'Desktop/Movies' -type f -iregex '.*\.(MKV)$' |\
	  while read FULL_PATH
	  do
	    PATH_SANS_EXTENSION="${FULL_PATH%.*}"
	    ffmpeg -y -v quiet -i "${FULL_PATH}" -codec:s ass -c copy "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}".ass & task_pid=(`jobs -l | awk '{print $2}'`);
	    wait ${task_pid};
	  done

### Add SRT Subtitles to MP4 Files

Simple script traverse a directory filled with MKV files and extract the ASS formatted subitles out of them:

	find -E 'Desktop/Movies' -type f -iregex '.*\.(MP4)$' |\
	  while read FULL_PATH
	  do
	    PATH_SANS_EXTENSION="${FULL_PATH%.*}"
	    ffmpeg -y -v quiet -i "${FULL_PATH}" -i "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}".srt -c:v copy -c:a copy -c:s mov_text -metadata:s:s:0 language=eng "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}".srt.mp4 & task_pid=(`jobs -l | awk '{print $2}'`);
	    wait ${task_pid};
	  done    

### Batch Convert MOV and DV files to an x265 MP4

Simple script traverse a directory filled with MOV and/or DV files and convert the contents to an x265 MP4:

	find -E 'Desktop/Movies' -type f -iregex '.*\.(DV|MOV|MKV)$' |\
	  while read FULL_PATH
	  do
	    PATH_SANS_EXTENSION="${FULL_PATH%.*}"
	    ffmpeg -y -v quiet -i "${FULL_PATH}" -map_metadata -1 -c:v libx265 -x265-params log-level=error -crf 20 -c:a aac -b:a 128k -ac 2 -vol 512 -tag:v hvc1 -sn "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}".mp4  < /dev/null;
	  done

### Batch Extract MP4 Video From Video Files

Simple script traverse a directory filled with DV, MOV and MKV files and extract the audio and video into a new file. Useful in cases wher Handbrake adds excessive duplicate frames; FFmpeg seems to be smart enought drop them:

	find -E 'Desktop/Movies' -type f -iregex '.*\.(DV|MKV|MOV|MP4)$' |\
	  while read FULL_PATH
	  do
	    PATH_SANS_EXTENSION="${FULL_PATH%.*}"
	    ffmpeg -y -v quiet -i "${FULL_PATH}" -map_metadata -1 -c:v copy -c:a copy -map 0:0 -map 0:1 "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}"_content.mp4 < /dev/null;
	  done


***

*Find - Video Processing Items (c) by Jack Szwergold; written on July 25, 2017. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-4.0).*

Commit message:

Tweaking the FFmpeg x265 script to set the scaling to a height of 576 pixels.

Find - Video Processing Items.md, after:

## Find - Video Processing Items

By Jack Szwergold

### Video Metadata Parser

This script (`video_metadata_parser.sh`) uses ExifTool to parse dates, times and titles from a directory of video files on the desktop. Info is saved on the desktop into a dated text file named something like `VideoInfo-2017-07-25.txt`:

	find -E "Desktop/Videos" -type f -iregex ".*\.(M4V|MOV)$" |\
	  while read full_video_filepath
	  do
	
	    # Break up the full audio filepath stuff into different directory and filename components.
	    video_dirname=$(dirname "${full_video_filepath}");
	    video_basename=$(basename "${full_video_filepath}");
	    video_filename="${video_basename%.*}";
	    video_extension="${video_basename##*.}";
	
	    # Get the video metadata.
	    video_date=$(exiftool -s -s -s -CreationDate "${full_video_filepath}");
	    video_title=$(exiftool -s -s -s -Title "${full_video_filepath}");
	
	    # Reformat the file creation date to be Flickr friendly.
	    if [ ! -z "${video_date}" ]; then
	      video_date_formatted=$(date -jf"%Y:%m:%d %k:%M:%S" "${video_date%-*}" +"%m/%d/%Y %k:%M:%S");
	    else
	      video_date_formatted="";
	    fi
	
	    # Reformat the file creation date to be Flickr friendly.
	    echo "${video_filename} | ${video_date_formatted} | ${video_title}" >> "Desktop/VideoInfo-$(date +%Y-%m-%d).txt";
	
	  done

### Extract MP4 Videos Out of an MKV File

Simple script traverse a directory filled with MKV files and extract the MP4 inside without transcoding:

	find -E 'Desktop/Movies' -type f -iregex '.*\.(MKV)$' |\
	  while read FULL_PATH
	  do
	    PATH_SANS_EXTENSION="${FULL_PATH%.*}"
	    ffmpeg -i "${FULL_PATH}" -codec copy "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}".mp4
	  done

### Extract ASS Subtitles Out of an MKV File

Simple script traverse a directory filled with MKV files and extract the ASS formatted subitles out of them:

	find -E 'Desktop/Movies' -type f -iregex '.*\.(MKV)$' |\
	  while read FULL_PATH
	  do
	    PATH_SANS_EXTENSION="${FULL_PATH%.*}"
	    ffmpeg -y -v quiet -i "${FULL_PATH}" -codec:s ass -c copy "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}".ass & task_pid=(`jobs -l | awk '{print $2}'`);
	    wait ${task_pid};
	  done

### Add SRT Subtitles to MP4 Files

Simple script traverse a directory filled with MKV files and extract the ASS formatted subitles out of them:

	find -E 'Desktop/Movies' -type f -iregex '.*\.(MP4)$' |\
	  while read FULL_PATH
	  do
	    PATH_SANS_EXTENSION="${FULL_PATH%.*}"
	    ffmpeg -y -v quiet -i "${FULL_PATH}" -i "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}".srt -c:v copy -c:a copy -c:s mov_text -metadata:s:s:0 language=eng "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}".srt.mp4 & task_pid=(`jobs -l | awk '{print $2}'`);
	    wait ${task_pid};
	  done    

### Batch Convert MOV and DV files to an x265 MP4

Simple script traverse a directory filled with MOV and/or DV files and convert the contents to an x265 MP4 at a height of 576 pixels:

	find -E 'Desktop/Movies' -type f -iregex '.*\.(DV|MOV|MKV)$' |\
	  while read FULL_PATH
	  do
	    PATH_SANS_EXTENSION="${FULL_PATH%.*}"
	    ffmpeg -y -v quiet -i "${FULL_PATH}" -map_metadata -1 -vf scale=-1:576 -c:v libx265 -x265-params log-level=error -crf 20 -c:a aac -b:a 128k -ac 2 -vol 512 -tag:v hvc1 -sn "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}".mp4  < /dev/null;
	  done

### Batch Extract MP4 Video From Video Files

Simple script traverse a directory filled with DV, MOV and MKV files and extract the audio and video into a new file. Useful in cases wher Handbrake adds excessive duplicate frames; FFmpeg seems to be smart enought drop them:

	find -E 'Desktop/Movies' -type f -iregex '.*\.(DV|MKV|MOV|MP4)$' |\
	  while read FULL_PATH
	  do
	    PATH_SANS_EXTENSION="${FULL_PATH%.*}"
	    ffmpeg -y -v quiet -i "${FULL_PATH}" -map_metadata -1 -c:v copy -c:a copy -map 0:0 -map 0:1 "${PATH_SANS_EXTENSION}"_content.mp4 < /dev/null;
	  done


***

*Find - Video Processing Items (c) by Jack Szwergold; written on July 25, 2017. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-4.0).*
