PHP - Oracle OCI8 Module Items.md, before:

## PHP - Oracle OCI8 Module Items

By Jack Szwergold

### PHP Oracle OCI8 under CentOS 6.8

#### Install the Oracle Instant Client Archives

Copy the Instant Client RPMs to the system you will be installing them on. Here are the SCP commands for CentOS 6.8 on my VirtualBox local development environment setup:

	scp ~/Desktop/oracle-instantclient12.2-* vagrant@sandbox-centos-68.local:.

SSH into the machine you just SCP’ed stuff to. Like the CentOS 6.8 sandbox:

	ssh vagrant@sandbox-centos-68.local

Now install the RPMs like this:

	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient12.2-basic-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient12.2-devel-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm

#### Compiling the OCI8 Module

If you have to, install the PHP Pear and PHP Devel packages. This is the command for CentOS 6.8 sandbox:

	sudo yum install php56w-pear php56w-devel

And you might need to run this command if you get this message, “WARNING: channel "pecl.php.net" has updated its protocols, use "pecl channel-update pecl.php.net" to update”:

	sudo pecl channel-update pecl.php.net

Now install the OCI8 version that works with your version of PHP. Here is how it breaks down:

* **PHP 8**: `pecl install oci8`
* **PHP 7.x**: `pecl install oci8-2.2.0`
* **PHP 5.2–5.6**: `pecl install oci8-2.0.12`
* **PHP 4.3.9-5.1**: `pecl install oci8-1.4.10`

So in this case, we are installing it for PHP version 5.6.10 so we will install version 2.0.12 using this command:

	sudo pecl install oci8-2.0.12

If you need to force a rebuild, use the `-f` option like this:

	sudo pecl install -f oci8-2.0.12

During the install you might be asked to provide the `ORACLE_HOME` path via a message like this:

	Please provide the path to the ORACLE_HOME directory. Use 'instantclient,/path/to/instant/client/lib' if you're compiling with Oracle Instant Client [autodetect] :

We are not permanently setting `ORACLE_HOME` so just use this as the path:

	instantclient,/usr/lib/oracle/19.6/client64/lib/

After PECL does it’s thing, the `oci8.so` should be compiled and ready to go.

#### Installing the OCI8 Module

Now adjust the PHP config file (`php.ini`) like this to get PHP to recognize it:

	sudo sh -c "printf '\n[OCI8]\nextension=oci8.so\n' >> /etc/php.ini"

Now start restart Apache and check the output of the PHP info page and `oci8` should be clearly listed there under installed components.

	sudo service httpd restart

***

### PHP Oracle OCI8 under CentOS 7

#### Install the Oracle Instant Client Archives

Copy the Instant Client RPMs to the system you will be installing them on. Here are the SCP commands for CentOS 7 on my VirtualBox local development environment setup:

	scp ~/Desktop/oracle-instantclient12.2-* vagrant@sandbox-centos-7.local:.

SSH into the machine you just SCP’ed stuff to. Like the CentOS 7 sandbox:

	ssh vagrant@sandbox-centos-7.local

Now install the RPMs like this:

	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient12.2-basic-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient12.2-devel-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm

#### Compiling the OCI8 Module

If you have to, install the PHP Pear and PHP Devel packages. This is the command for CentOS 7 sandbox:

	sudo yum install php-pear php-devel

And you might need to run this command if you get this message, “WARNING: channel "pecl.php.net" has updated its protocols, use "pecl channel-update pecl.php.net" to update”:

	sudo pecl channel-update pecl.php.net

Now install the OCI8 version that works with your version of PHP. Here is how it breaks down:

* **PHP 8**: `pecl install oci8`
* **PHP 7.x**: `pecl install oci8-2.2.0`
* **PHP 5.2–5.6**: `pecl install oci8-2.0.12`
* **PHP 4.3.9-5.1**: `pecl install oci8-1.4.10`

So in this case, we are installing it for PHP version 5.6.10 so we will install version 2.0.12 using this command:

	sudo pecl install oci8-2.0.12

If you need to force a rebuild, use the `-f` option like this:

	sudo pecl install -f oci8-2.0.12

During the install you might be asked to provide the `ORACLE_HOME` path via a message like this:

	Please provide the path to the ORACLE_HOME directory. Use 'instantclient,/path/to/instant/client/lib' if you're compiling with Oracle Instant Client [autodetect] :

We are not permanently setting `ORACLE_HOME` so just use this as the path:

	instantclient,/usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/

After PECL does it’s thing, the `oci8.so` should be compiled and ready to go.

#### Installing the OCI8 Module

Now adjust the PHP config file (`php.ini`) like this to get PHP to recognize it:

	sudo sh -c "printf '\n[OCI8]\nextension=oci8.so\n' >> /etc/php.ini"

Now start restart Apache and check the output of the PHP info page and `oci8` should be clearly listed there under installed components.

	sudo service httpd restart

***

### Oracle OCI8 Upgrade

Unistall the older version like this:

	sudo rpm -e --nodeps oracle-instantclient12.2-basic-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64
	sudo rpm -e --nodeps oracle-instantclient12.2-devel-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64

Or do it the brute force way like this:

	cd /usr/lib/oracle/
	sudo rm -rf 12.2
	
	cd /usr/include/oracle/
	sudo rm -rf 12.2

Install it like this:

	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient19.12-basic-19.12.0.0.0-1.x86_64.rpm
	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient19.12-devel-19.12.0.0.0-1.x86_64.rpm

Then uninstall the OCI8 version that exists:

	sudo pecl uninstall oci8-2.2.0

And install the new one like this:

	sudo pecl install oci8-2.2.0	

The path to the libraries is:

	instantclient,/usr/lib/oracle/19.12/client64/lib/

If an error regarding `php_config.h`:

	sudo nano /usr/include/php/main/php_config.h

Find this:

	/* Defined to 1 if PHP OCI8 DTrace support was enabled during configuration */
	#define HAVE_OCI8_DTRACE 1

And change to this:

	/* Defined to 1 if PHP OCI8 DTrace support was enabled during configuration */
	/* #define HAVE_OCI8_DTRACE 1 */

Restart Apache:

	sudo service httpd restart
	
***

### Dealing with some issues if they pop up.

For some Terminal connections — mainly on older server OS installs — running `pecl install -f oci8` and then responding `instantclient,/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib/` to the path question won’t work. The workaround for that is to run an `echo` and a pipe (`|`) command like this:

	echo "instantclient,/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib/" | pecl install -f oci8

And if you are installing this on some PHP setups, this error might come up after that `pecl install` kicks in:

	error: oci8_dtrace_gen.h: No such file or directory make: *** [oci8.lo] Error 1

In cases like that, you need to disable DTrace support to install OCI8 by opening up this file:

	sudo nano /usr/include/php/main/php_config.h

Look for this:

	/* Defined to 1 if PHP OCI8 DTrace support was enabled during configuration */
	#define HAVE_OCI8_DTRACE 1

And change it to this; basically commenting out that line:

	/* Defined to 1 if PHP OCI8 DTrace support was enabled during configuration */
	/* #define HAVE_OCI8_DTRACE 1 */

Then go back and run that `pecl install` command again.

***

*PHP - Oracle OCI8 Module Items (c) by Jack Szwergold; written on October 10, 2017. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-4.0).*

Commit message:

Updating the Oracle stuff to include the fact thet PHP 7.3.25 on Red Hat 6.8 needs to use version 18.5 of the Oracle Instant Client with OCI8 2.2.0. Yeah. Fun.

PHP - Oracle OCI8 Module Items.md, after:

## PHP - Oracle OCI8 Module Items

By Jack Szwergold

### PHP Oracle OCI8 under CentOS 6.8

#### Install the Oracle Instant Client Archives

Copy the Instant Client RPMs to the system you will be installing them on. Here are the SCP commands for CentOS 6.8 on my VirtualBox local development environment setup:

	scp ~/Desktop/oracle-instantclient12.2-* vagrant@sandbox-centos-68.local:.

SSH into the machine you just SCP’ed stuff to. Like the CentOS 6.8 sandbox:

	ssh vagrant@sandbox-centos-68.local

Now install the RPMs like this:

	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient12.2-basic-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient12.2-devel-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm

#### Compiling the OCI8 Module

If you have to, install the PHP Pear and PHP Devel packages. This is the command for CentOS 6.8 sandbox:

	sudo yum install php56w-pear php56w-devel

And you might need to run this command if you get this message, “WARNING: channel "pecl.php.net" has updated its protocols, use "pecl channel-update pecl.php.net" to update”:

	sudo pecl channel-update pecl.php.net

Now install the OCI8 version that works with your version of PHP. Here is how it breaks down:

* **PHP 8**: `pecl install oci8`
* **PHP 7.x**: `pecl install oci8-2.2.0`
* **PHP 5.2–5.6**: `pecl install oci8-2.0.12`
* **PHP 4.3.9-5.1**: `pecl install oci8-1.4.10`

So in this case, we are installing it for PHP version 5.6.10 so we will install version 2.0.12 using this command:

	sudo pecl install oci8-2.0.12

If you need to force a rebuild, use the `-f` option like this:

	sudo pecl install -f oci8-2.0.12

During the install you might be asked to provide the `ORACLE_HOME` path via a message like this:

	Please provide the path to the ORACLE_HOME directory. Use 'instantclient,/path/to/instant/client/lib' if you're compiling with Oracle Instant Client [autodetect] :

We are not permanently setting `ORACLE_HOME` so just use this as the path:

	instantclient,/usr/lib/oracle/19.6/client64/lib/

After PECL does it’s thing, the `oci8.so` should be compiled and ready to go.

#### Installing the OCI8 Module

Now adjust the PHP config file (`php.ini`) like this to get PHP to recognize it:

	sudo sh -c "printf '\n[OCI8]\nextension=oci8.so\n' >> /etc/php.ini"

Now start restart Apache and check the output of the PHP info page and `oci8` should be clearly listed there under installed components.

	sudo service httpd restart

***

### PHP Oracle OCI8 under CentOS 7

#### Install the Oracle Instant Client Archives

Copy the Instant Client RPMs to the system you will be installing them on. Here are the SCP commands for CentOS 7 on my VirtualBox local development environment setup:

	scp ~/Desktop/oracle-instantclient12.2-* vagrant@sandbox-centos-7.local:.

SSH into the machine you just SCP’ed stuff to. Like the CentOS 7 sandbox:

	ssh vagrant@sandbox-centos-7.local

Now install the RPMs like this:

	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient12.2-basic-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm
	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient12.2-devel-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64.rpm

#### Compiling the OCI8 Module

If you have to, install the PHP Pear and PHP Devel packages. This is the command for CentOS 7 sandbox:

	sudo yum install php-pear php-devel

And you might need to run this command if you get this message, “WARNING: channel "pecl.php.net" has updated its protocols, use "pecl channel-update pecl.php.net" to update”:

	sudo pecl channel-update pecl.php.net

Now install the OCI8 version that works with your version of PHP. Here is how it breaks down:

* **PHP 8**: `pecl install oci8`
* **PHP 7.x**: `pecl install oci8-2.2.0`
* **PHP 5.2–5.6**: `pecl install oci8-2.0.12`
* **PHP 4.3.9-5.1**: `pecl install oci8-1.4.10`

So in this case, we are installing it for PHP version 5.6.10 so we will install version 2.0.12 using this command:

	sudo pecl install oci8-2.0.12

If you need to force a rebuild, use the `-f` option like this:

	sudo pecl install -f oci8-2.0.12

During the install you might be asked to provide the `ORACLE_HOME` path via a message like this:

	Please provide the path to the ORACLE_HOME directory. Use 'instantclient,/path/to/instant/client/lib' if you're compiling with Oracle Instant Client [autodetect] :

We are not permanently setting `ORACLE_HOME` so just use this as the path:

	instantclient,/usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib/

After PECL does it’s thing, the `oci8.so` should be compiled and ready to go.

#### Installing the OCI8 Module

Now adjust the PHP config file (`php.ini`) like this to get PHP to recognize it:

	sudo sh -c "printf '\n[OCI8]\nextension=oci8.so\n' >> /etc/php.ini"

Now start restart Apache and check the output of the PHP info page and `oci8` should be clearly listed there under installed components.

	sudo service httpd restart

***

### Oracle OCI8 Upgrade

Unistall the older version like this:

	sudo rpm -e --nodeps oracle-instantclient12.2-basic-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64
	sudo rpm -e --nodeps oracle-instantclient12.2-devel-12.2.0.1.0-1.x86_64

Or do it the brute force way like this:

	cd /usr/lib/oracle/
	sudo rm -rf 12.2
	
	cd /usr/include/oracle/
	sudo rm -rf 12.2

Install it like this:

	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient19.12-basic-19.12.0.0.0-1.x86_64.rpm
	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient19.12-devel-19.12.0.0.0-1.x86_64.rpm

Then uninstall the OCI8 version that exists:

	sudo pecl uninstall oci8-2.2.0

And install the new one like this:

	sudo pecl install oci8-2.2.0	

The path to the libraries is:

	instantclient,/usr/lib/oracle/19.12/client64/lib/

If an error regarding `php_config.h`:

	sudo nano /usr/include/php/main/php_config.h

Find this:

	/* Defined to 1 if PHP OCI8 DTrace support was enabled during configuration */
	#define HAVE_OCI8_DTRACE 1

And change to this:

	/* Defined to 1 if PHP OCI8 DTrace support was enabled during configuration */
	/* #define HAVE_OCI8_DTRACE 1 */

Restart Apache:

	sudo service httpd restart

***

### Oracle OCI8 Upgrade on PHP 7.3.25 on Red Hat 6.8

For some crazy reason, the combination of PHP 7.3.25 on outdated Red Hat 6.8 needs to use OCI8 2.2.0 but it can't use anything higher than version 18.5 of the Oracle Instant Client. And a specific server I was doimng this on is the fact it wouldn’t use PECL correctly for fetching remote packages. So this is the dance one has to do to get the OCI8 driver installed.

First, install version 18.5 of the Oracle Instant Client like this:

	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient18.5-basic-18.5.0.0.0-3.x86_64.rpm
	sudo rpm -Uvh oracle-instantclient18.5-devel-18.5.0.0.0-3.x86_64.rpm

Then download the OCI8 2.2.0 PECL package directly like this:

	wget http://pecl.php.net/get/oci8-2.2.0.tgz

Now install the OCI8 2.2.0 PECL package like this:

	pear install -f ~/oci8-2.2.0.tgz

The path to the libraries is:

	instantclient,/usr/lib/oracle/18.5/client64/lib/

***

### Dealing with some issues if they pop up.

For some Terminal connections — mainly on older server OS installs — running `pecl install -f oci8` and then responding `instantclient,/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib/` to the path question won’t work. The workaround for that is to run an `echo` and a pipe (`|`) command like this:

	echo "instantclient,/usr/lib/oracle/12.1/client64/lib/" | pecl install -f oci8

And if you are installing this on some PHP setups, this error might come up after that `pecl install` kicks in:

	error: oci8_dtrace_gen.h: No such file or directory make: *** [oci8.lo] Error 1

In cases like that, you need to disable DTrace support to install OCI8 by opening up this file:

	sudo nano /usr/include/php/main/php_config.h

Look for this:

	/* Defined to 1 if PHP OCI8 DTrace support was enabled during configuration */
	#define HAVE_OCI8_DTRACE 1

And change it to this; basically commenting out that line:

	/* Defined to 1 if PHP OCI8 DTrace support was enabled during configuration */
	/* #define HAVE_OCI8_DTRACE 1 */

Then go back and run that `pecl install` command again.

***

*PHP - Oracle OCI8 Module Items (c) by Jack Szwergold; written on October 10, 2017. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-4.0).*
